Lesson 2 Reflections

What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
When you initialize a repository, it creates a folder to store metadata so that it can track your repository. You need to initialize it so that all the files are in place to track your commits when you are ready.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
The staging area is a virtual place, whereas the working directory is a physical location on the drive. The staging area allows you to control what you commit, rather than committing everything at once.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
The staging area allows you to only commit the files that constitute a logical change. So if you were to make more than one logical change spread out over different files, you could first make the changes you want, then commit them indiependently.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
One example where branching would be useful is when you are making a game and you create a secret level that is pretty complex. It would help you to branch because you could continue working on the secret level while also keeping your game up to date with bugs.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
The diagrams help you to see which commits are linked and in which order.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
When you merge two branches together, it takes the new elements from each branch and combines them into one branch. Any added lines are retained and deleted lines are left out. It is represented that way in the diagrams because you are taking two branches and making one.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
If you always merge manually you have much more conrol over the exact outcome. However, doing this is much more complicated, and you are more likely to miss changes in your code. Also doing it manually takes a lot more time.